# Xbox Controller Mouse and Keyboard Emulator 🎮
A program designed to connect to an xbox controller and from it emulate mouse and keyboard inputs

## 🛠 The Development Process
This project was made alongside the wiimote project when I wanted a bit of a break from working on the hard stuff, and I wanted to see how much easier it would be to connect a more conventional device to my programs. Needless to say, it was significantly easier, especially after switching to C# from the C++ I was planning to use for the wiimote project. The wiimote project is intended to be a learning experience, but I think it is also important to know how to make life easy for myself. I decided to use microsoft's XInput library after checking their [Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/xinput/programming-guide), as opposed to DInput. DInput would have been a more veratile software, able to handle for example playstation controllers as well, but added some extra complexity which I felt wasn't necessary for what I wanted to learn from this project (especially since I do not own a playstation controller 😥). Additionally, since I already had plans to make my own keyboard emulator on a lower level for the wiimote project I did not feel the need to do the same here, so I happily found a .Net package to add to the project to help with this task.

Microsoft's documentation actually made making the code work fairly trivial, but there were still some parts of it that I didn't quite understand until I did some further research. I had never come across the [StructLayout(LayoutKind.Sequential)] tag before in my programming, which simply defines how the struct is stored in memory to keep all it's data sequential (as this is what the XInput library expects to find and is an important part of making use of the library). This was also my first time interacting with the 'extern' keyword, which tells the compiler that it should expect to be able to find a function definition externally, in this case in the imported xinput DLL. I also decided to store the button maps in their own structs to allow me to switch between them easily in case I wanted to support custom inputs ⌨, although this feature did not make it into the final product.

All in all I feel I learned everything I intended to from this project, and achieved my goals of implementing a keyboard emulator for my xbox controller in a simple and easy manner ✨.
